Added zones and NuGet package tables (#34443)
dotnet/docs: docs/orleans/resources/nuget-packages.md

---
title: Orleans NuGet packages
description: Explore the many .NET Orleans NuGet packages.
ms.date: 03/07/2023
zone_pivot_groups: orleans-version
---

# Orleans NuGet packages

Consumers of Orleans rely on various NuGet packages to achieve specific desired behaviors. There are several common packages and abstractions, and many individual single purpose packages. This article provides insights to help developers learn which Orleans packages should be used.

<!-- markdownlint-disable MD044 -->
:::zone target="docs" pivot="orleans-7-0"
<!-- markdownlint-enable MD044 -->

## Key packages

> There are three primary mutually exclusive NuGet packages required when writing Orleans apps used for various workloads. For example, when you write an Orleans Silo, you'll reference the [Microsoft.Orleans.Server](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Orleans.Server) NuGet package. When you write an Orleans Client app, you'll reference the [Microsoft.Orleans.Client](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Orleans.Client) NuGet package. For any other Orleans projects, such as abstractions or grain class libraries, you'll reference the [Microsoft.Orleans.Sdk](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Orleans.Sdk) NuGet package.

Reviewer: This first sentence reads awkwardly to me.  How about something like this:

```suggestion
You reference one of two mutually exclusive NuGet packages when writing Orleans apps, depending on the chosen workload. For example, when you write an Orleans Silo, you'll reference the [Microsoft.Orleans.Server](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Orleans.Server) NuGet package. When you write an Orleans Client app, you'll reference the [Microsoft.Orleans.Client](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Orleans.Client) NuGet package. All Orleans projects, such as abstractions or grain class libraries, reference the [Microsoft.Orleans.Sdk](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Orleans.Sdk) NuGet package. The `Microsoft.Orleans.Sdk` package is included with both the `Client` and `Server` packages.
```

| [Microsoft.Orleans.Serialization.Abstractions](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Orleans.Serialization.Abstractions) | Serialization abstractions for Orleans. |
| [Microsoft.Orleans.Serialization.SystemTextJson](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Orleans.Serialization.SystemTextJson) | `System.Text.Json` integration for `Microsoft.Orleans.Serialization`. |
| [Microsoft.Orleans.Serialization.FSharp](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Orleans.Serialization.FSharp) | F# core type support for `Microsoft.Orleans.Serialization`. |
| [Microsoft.Orleans.Serialization.NewtonsoftJson](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Orleans.Serialization.NewtonsoftJson) | `Newtonsoft.Json` integration for `Microsoft.Orleans.Serialization`. |

## Transactions

| NuGet package | Description |
|---|---|
| [Microsoft.Orleans.Transactions](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Orleans.Transactions) | Core transaction library of Orleans used on the server. |
| [Microsoft.Orleans.Transactions.AzureStorage](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Microsoft.Orleans.Transactions.AzureStorage) | Orleans transactions storage provider backed by Azure Storage. |

## Tools

> One popular Orleans tool, is the [OrleansDashboard](https://www.nuget.org/packages/OrleansDashboard) NuGet package. This dashboard provides some simple metrics and insights into what is happening inside your Orleans app. For more information, see [GitHub: Orleans Dashboard](https://github.com/OrleansContrib/OrleansDashboard).

Reviewer: remove the comma:

```suggestion
One popular Orleans tool is the [OrleansDashboard](https://www.nuget.org/packages/OrleansDashboard) NuGet package. This dashboard provides some simple metrics and insights into what is happening inside your Orleans app. For more information, see [GitHub: Orleans Dashboard](https://github.com/OrleansContrib/OrleansDashboard).
```
